Blog on Quarkus JDiameter Extension (#2082)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2024-08-19-quarkus-jdiameter-intro.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: 'Revolutionsing Telecom Microservice - Modernising JDiameter with Quarkus'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Revolutionising Telecom Microservice - Modernising JDiameter with Quarkus'
```

As mentioned earlier, the RestComm JDiameter stack had been neglected and was in dire need of some attention. My first step was to modernise the JDiameter stack by removing deprecated dependencies and updating the outdated ones to their latest versions.

Two key changes were made to the stack. The first was removing Pico containers—an outdated dependency injection framework from the pre-Java EE era—and the second was replacing the concurrency logic from the old Thread Group model with the more modern Thread Pool model. With the introduction of thread pooling, the Diameter stack can now utilise virtual threading!

The next challenge was to develop a Quarkus extension to integrate the Diameter stack into the Quarkus framework. I had three main objectives with this extension:

. *Simplified Configuration*: Moving the configuration to the "application.properties“ file to make the stack easier to configure.
. *Dependency Injection*: Enabling dependency injection of Diameter stacks and configuration into a scoped service.
. *Interceptor Service Framework*: Creating an interceptor service framework for a more straightforward implementation of Diameter applications.

> The Quarkus JDiameter stack has been released and is now part of Quarkiverse Hub. You can find it at link:https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-jdiameter[Quarkiverse Hub]. Documentation for the stack is available at link:https://docs.quarkiverse.io/quarkus-jdiameter/2.0.0/index.html[Quarkus JDiameter Documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Quarkus JDiameter stack has been released and is now part of Quarkiverse Hub. You can find it at link:https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-jdiameter[Quarkiverse Hub]. Documentation for the stack is available at link:https://docs.quarkiverse.io/quarkus-jdiameter/dev/index.html[Quarkus JDiameter Documentation].
```

You may want to point the URL to the main dev branch

Author: To clarify, it should point to 2.0.0
